---
title: "How to interact with new community
members"
---

{{< admonition warning >}}
This is a draft document.
{{< /admonition >}}

As a maintainer, you will be the first point of
contact for new community members. It is important
to embody a positive and helpful force for the
health of your community.

### Be welcoming

Always behave in a manner that is polite, patient, and understanding.
Many contributors are acting on their own time so
try to create an environment that is energizing,
not draining. Don't forget that on public forums,
potential new contributors will be monitoring
the community dynamic before getting involved!

Use language to show that you are excited and
grateful about their contributions to the project.
Avoid saying things that could be construed as
meaning otherwise or being too short.

Many first-time contributors are intimidated and
nervous about making mistakes, so keep in mind for
both you and them that mistakes are natural and
part of the learning process. Assure and empower
them with your help and mentorship so that they
feel supported and comfortable contributing to the
project.

### Provide resources, not solutions

While some level of shepherding is needed, be
careful not to micro-manage contributors, as it
hinders the learning process and can be
frustrating for both parties. First offer guidance
before using more hands-on approaches, for example,
try talking a contributor through the changes
they need to make instead of typing the solution
for them.

For tasks that may be too advanced or daunting for
a first-time contributor, such as comprehensive
testing, benchmarking, or doc-building, offer to
handle that part or to lend your support while
they try it themselves.

Avoid excessive nitpicking as requesting constant
small changes can be discouraging to a new
contributor. Instead, you can make a follow-up PR
after the merge to fix these or use an opinionated
formatter, such as
[`black`](https://github.com/psf/black), to handle
most style-related nitpicks.

### Recognize contributions

Remember that contributions are a good thing that
should be celebrated and encouraged. Communicate
your appreciation for the work your community
members are doing and connect the impact their
contributions have to your project's goals and how
it will help many others.

By providing a positive contributing experience,
you can create a positive feedback loop where
community members enjoy and want to continue their
amazing contributions to your project!
