---
title: "Managing conflict"
---

{{< admonition warning >}}
This is a draft document.
{{< /admonition >}}

### Code of Conduct

It's a good idea to have a Code of Conduct to hold
your community members accountable to and create a
safe and inclusive space for everyone. This helps
establish clear expectations on how community
members should behave respectfully in their
interactions with each other and serves as a
reference for fair arbitration when the need
arises.

You can base your Code of Conduct off of similar
projects' ones or use the [Contributor
Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/code_of_conduct/code_of_conduct.md)
as a starting point, tailoring it to your
community's specific needs. Larger projects should
have an impartial committee dedicated to handling
Code of Conduct violations, and a method for
community members to privately raise issues to
them.

### Assume positive intent and acknowledge

negative impact
Many interpersonal conflicts stem from simple
misunderstandings. It is important to assume
positive intent and acknowledge negative impact to
prevent further escalation of the situation.
Remind everyone that they share the same goals and
try to find commonalities between each party's
reasonings. Validate that perhaps the offending
party meant no malice while also validating the
ways that the offended party was hurt.

### When to step in

Once discussions begin to get heated, with
misunderstandings and accusations getting thrown
in, immediate resolution can be difficult. At this point,
project leaders should consider stepping in, asking
involved parties to cool off,
and try to find a way for them to understand each
other.

When the Code of Conduct is violated, you should
take disciplinary action as detailed therein and
communicate to the offending party what they did
wrong and why. Assure the offended party that you
are taking the offense seriously and detail what
actions you took to remedy the situation, as well
as taking into account what their desired outcome
is.

Do not wait for a report to take action on a Code
of Conduct violation, it's best to address obvious
breaches of the Code in a timely manner to
demonstrate that it is important and a priority of
your project. Staying proactive helps to cultivate
a positive and healthy community dynamic.
